index.md, before:

---
title: "Course Website for POLS 209: Introduction to Research Methods"
description: "Course Website for Pols 209 - 900 Fall 2019"
---

This page has important information for POLS 209, section 900 in Fall 2019. Any adjustments to the schedule will appear here.

## Key Course Materials

[Syllabus](files/pols-209-syllabus.pdf)

[Data for Assignments](files/pols-209-data.zip)

## Office Hours
Monday 3:30 to 5pm and Thursday 1:30 to 3pm. Also by appointment.

## Meeting Time and Place
MWF 12:05 to 12:55 in Allen Building 1005.

## Schedule

The schedule is broken up into three blocks.
The first block deals with questions, models and the fundamental problems social scientists face.
The second block describes how we can learn from data.
The third and final block combines material from the first two--- integrating question, model and evidence.

Tasks below the date should be completed before the next class (unless a due-date is listed).

All due-dates are marked in italics.

### Questions, Models, and Research Challenges

**August 26**
1. Read the syllabus carefully
2. Install R and RStudio
3. Order textbook (Have by September 9)

**August 28**: Questions
1. Review [notes on questions](files/notes-02-questions.pdf)

**August 30**: No Class- Instructor at a Conference

**September 2**: Models
1. Review [notes on models](files/notes-03-models.pdf)

**September 4**: Assessing Models

**September 6**: Model-Building Exercises

**September 9**: Research Design
1. Review [notes on research design](files/notes-research-design.pdf)


### Learning from Data

**September 11**: Introduction to R
1. Review [notes on R](files/notes-04-computing.pdf).

**September 13**: Computing in R


**September 16**: Causal Inference
1. *Submit [Computing Assignment 1](assignments/r-assign-01.pdf)*
2. Read chs. 1-2 of FPP. Complete assigned exercises
3. Review notes
4. Read ch. 3 of FPP. Complete assigned exercises.

**September 18**: More Histograms and R Implementation
1. Review [notes on histograms in R](files/notes-08-histograms-r.pdf).

**September 20**: Average and Standard Deviation
1. Read ch. 4 of FPP. Complete assigned exercises.
2. Read “5 Steps toward Constructing a Better Sentence” [web](https://eebatou.wordpress.com/2011/09/02/writing-5-steps-toward-constructing-a-better-sentence/).
3. Read “5 Steps toward Writing an Effective Paragraph” [web](https://eebatou.wordpress.com/2007/01/21/5-steps-to-a-writing-an-effective-paragraph/).

**September 23**: Average and SD in R
1. *Submit [Computing Assignment 2](assignments/r-assign-02.pdf)*
2. Review your notes from my [Lecture on Average and SD in R](files/mean-sd-slides.pdf).
2. Review [Notes on Average and SD in R](files/notes-10-avg-sd-r). Complete exercises.
3. Begin working on [Computing Assignment 3](assignments/r-assign-03.pdf).

**September 25**: Normal Approximations
1. Read ch. 5 of FPP. Complete assigned exercises.


**September 27**: Measurement
1. Read ch. 6 of FPP. Complete assigned exercises.
2. *Submit [Computing Assignment 3](assignments/r-assign-03.pdf).*
3. Prepare for Exam 1. Focus on the review exercises from notes, slides, and textbook.
4. Begin working on [Writing Assignment 1](assignments/writing-assignment-1.docx)

**September 30**: Review for Exam 1
1. Think about questions/points of difficulty.
2. Study Guide [Google Doc](https://docs.google.com/document/d/19WF7hCjFCnCWdCwYDDisxWmMCUmapI4wJdb-rnOdsuo/edit)

**October 2**: Exam 1 (Bring your pocket calculator)
1. Read ["Politics and the English Language"](HonorsOrwellPoliticsEnglishLanguage.pdf). Expect a reading quiz.

**October 4**: Scatterplots and Correlation
1. Read chs. 7-8 of FPP. Complete assigned exercises.
2. See this sheet for p. 137, #9(a) [Google Sheet](https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/1Y2EuRIcbuZk6eu9WWUaNXSWnqJMi9XBXrA27BzqSeKk/edit).

**October 7**: Scatterplots and Correlation in R
1. Review [Notes on Scatterplots and Correlation in R](/files/notes-18-correlation-r.pdf). Complete exercises.
2. Read ch. 9 of FPP. Complete assigned exercises.
3. Play this game [web](http://www.rossmanchance.com/applets/GuessCorrelation.html) and track your performance.

**October 9**: Regression: Part 1
1. *Initial submission of Writing Assignment 1 due.*
2. Read ch. 10 of FPP. Complete assigned exercises.

**October 11**: Regression: Part 2
1. Read ch. 11 of FPP. Complete assigned exercises.
2. Begin [Computing Assignment 4](assignments/r-assign-04.pdf).

**October 14**: Regression: Part 3
1. Read ch. 12 of FPP. Complete assigned exercises.
2. *Submit [Computing Assignment 4](assignments/r-assign-04.pdf).*

**October 16**: Regression in R
1. Review [Notes on Regression in R](files/notes-23-regression-r.pdf). Complete exercises.
2. *Peer Review of Writing Assignment 1 Due.*
3. Use this [example response memo](assignments/response-memo-example.pdf) when writing your own response memo to peer comments.

**October 18**: Multiple Regression: Part 1

**October 21**: Multiple Regression: Part 2
1. *Final Submission of Writing Assignment 1 Due*
2. Review your notes on my lecture on econometric notation. Make sure you can explain the similarities and differences between FPP’s simple notation and the more complicated econometric notation. What are the two advantages of econometric notation?
3. Review your [notes on my lecture on regression for prediction](files/regression-prediction-slides.pdf).
4. Read [these notes](notes-multiple-regression-r.pdf) for more detail on prediction and BIC.


**October 23**: Catch-up Day and Review for Exam 2
1. [Exam 2 Study Guide](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1aRe1GgbJhoUTltteX-WPEJb-ImDVXq4FHz4QMuhThBY/edit#heading=h.pu6lyh4jr74b)

**October 25**: Exam 2


**October 28**: Probability: Part 1
1. We’ll look at [the Federalist papers](http://www.foundingfathers.info/federalistpapers/fedindex.htm) in class.
2. Read ch. 13 of FPP. Complete assigned exercises.
3. Start [Computing Assignment 5](assignments/r-assign-05.pdf).


**October 30**: Probability: Part 2
1. Read ch. 14 of FPP. Complete assigned exercises.

**November 1**: Law of Averages
1. Read ch. 16 of FPP. Complete assigned exercises.
2. Begin [Writing Assignment 2](assignments/writing-assignment-2.pdf)

**November 4**: Expected Value and Standard Error
1. Read ch. 17 of FPP. Complete assigned exercises.

**November 6**: Normal Approximation of a Probability Histogram
1. Read ch. 18 of FPP. Complete assigned exercises.
2. *Submit [Computing Assignment 5](assignments/r-assign-05.pdf).*
3. In class, use these slides as needed [Google Slides](https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/1SOUFFnB3VvILGscV5qOGxJnKJjHIHdbhFzxyB7SEJ8Y/edit#slide=id.g2ac70fc58f_0_9).

**November 8**: No Class- Another Conference

**November 11**: The Accuracy of Percentages
1. Read ch. 21 of FPP. Complete assigned exercises.

**November 13**: The Accuracy of Averages
1. *Initial submission of Writing Assignment 2 due*
2. Read ch. 23 of FPP. Complete assigned exercises.

**November 15**: Hypothesis Testing: Part 1
1. Read ch. 26 of FPP. Complete assigned exercises.

**November 18**: Hypothesis Testing: Part 2

### Question, Model and Data

**November 20**: Lecture on Effective Presentation
1. *Peer Review of Writing Assignment 2 Due*

**November 22**: Guest Lecture

**November 25**: No Class- Prepare Presentation
1. Here's some [guidance on slide design](https://www.speechworks.net/what-would-the-gettysburg-address-look-like-in-powerpoint/).

**December 2**: In-class Presentations
1. *Final Submission of [Writing Assignment 2](assignments/writing-assignment-2.pdf) Due*

**December 4**: In-class Presentations

Commit message:

add exercises and tweak syllabus

index.md, after:

---
title: "Course Website for POLS 209: Introduction to Research Methods"
description: "Course Website for Pols 209 - 900 Fall 2019"
---

This page contains all the materials and schedule for POLS 209, section 900 in Fall 2019. Any adjustments to the schedule will appear here.

## Key Course Materials

[Syllabus](files/pols-209-syllabus.pdf)

[Data for Assignments](files/pols-209-data.zip)

[Assigned Exercises from FPP](files/fpp-exercises.pdf)

## Office Hours
Monday 3:30 to 5pm and Thursday 1:30 to 3pm. Also by appointment.

## Meeting Time and Place
MWF 12:05 to 12:55 in Allen Building 1005.

## Schedule

The schedule is broken up into three blocks.
The first block deals with questions, models and the fundamental problems social scientists face.
The second block describes how we can learn from data.
The third and final block combines material from the first two--- integrating question, model and evidence.

Tasks below the date should be completed before the next class (unless a due-date is listed).

All due-dates are marked in italics.

### Questions, Models, and Research Challenges

**August 26**
1. Read the syllabus carefully
2. Install R and RStudio
3. Order textbook (Have by September 9)

**August 28**: Questions
1. Review [notes on questions](files/notes-02-questions.pdf)

**August 30**: No Class- Instructor at a Conference

**September 2**: Models
1. Review [notes on models](files/notes-03-models.pdf)

**September 4**: Assessing Models

**September 6**: Model-Building Exercises

**September 9**: Research Design
1. Review [notes on research design](files/notes-research-design.pdf)


### Learning from Data

**September 11**: Introduction to R
1. Review [notes on R](files/notes-04-computing.pdf).

**September 13**: Computing in R


**September 16**: Causal Inference
1. *Submit [Computing Assignment 1](assignments/r-assign-01.pdf)*
2. Read chs. 1-2 of FPP. Complete assigned exercises
3. Review notes
4. Read ch. 3 of FPP. Complete assigned exercises.

**September 18**: More Histograms and R Implementation
1. Review [notes on histograms in R](files/notes-08-histograms-r.pdf).

**September 20**: Average and Standard Deviation
1. Read ch. 4 of FPP. Complete assigned exercises.
2. Read “5 Steps toward Constructing a Better Sentence” [web](https://eebatou.wordpress.com/2011/09/02/writing-5-steps-toward-constructing-a-better-sentence/).
3. Read “5 Steps toward Writing an Effective Paragraph” [web](https://eebatou.wordpress.com/2007/01/21/5-steps-to-a-writing-an-effective-paragraph/).

**September 23**: Average and SD in R
1. *Submit [Computing Assignment 2](assignments/r-assign-02.pdf)*
2. Review your notes from my [Lecture on Average and SD in R](files/mean-sd-slides.pdf).
2. Review [Notes on Average and SD in R](files/notes-10-avg-sd-r). Complete exercises.
3. Begin working on [Computing Assignment 3](assignments/r-assign-03.pdf).

**September 25**: Normal Approximations
1. Read ch. 5 of FPP. Complete assigned exercises.


**September 27**: Measurement
1. Read ch. 6 of FPP. Complete assigned exercises.
2. *Submit [Computing Assignment 3](assignments/r-assign-03.pdf).*
3. Prepare for Exam 1. Focus on the review exercises from notes, slides, and textbook.
4. Begin working on [Writing Assignment 1](assignments/writing-assignment-1.docx)

**September 30**: Review for Exam 1
1. Think about questions/points of difficulty.
2. Study Guide [Google Doc](https://docs.google.com/document/d/19WF7hCjFCnCWdCwYDDisxWmMCUmapI4wJdb-rnOdsuo/edit)

**October 2**: Exam 1 (Bring your pocket calculator)
1. Read ["Politics and the English Language"](HonorsOrwellPoliticsEnglishLanguage.pdf). Expect a reading quiz.

**October 4**: Scatterplots and Correlation
1. Read chs. 7-8 of FPP. Complete assigned exercises.
2. See this sheet for p. 137, #9(a) [Google Sheet](https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/1Y2EuRIcbuZk6eu9WWUaNXSWnqJMi9XBXrA27BzqSeKk/edit).

**October 7**: Scatterplots and Correlation in R
1. Review [Notes on Scatterplots and Correlation in R](/files/notes-18-correlation-r.pdf). Complete exercises.
2. Read ch. 9 of FPP. Complete assigned exercises.
3. Play this game [web](http://www.rossmanchance.com/applets/GuessCorrelation.html) and track your performance.

**October 9**: Regression: Part 1
1. *Initial submission of Writing Assignment 1 due.*
2. Read ch. 10 of FPP. Complete assigned exercises.

**October 11**: Regression: Part 2
1. Read ch. 11 of FPP. Complete assigned exercises.
2. Begin [Computing Assignment 4](assignments/r-assign-04.pdf).

**October 14**: Regression: Part 3
1. Read ch. 12 of FPP. Complete assigned exercises.
2. *Submit [Computing Assignment 4](assignments/r-assign-04.pdf).*

**October 16**: Regression in R
1. Review [Notes on Regression in R](files/notes-23-regression-r.pdf). Complete exercises.
2. *Peer Review of Writing Assignment 1 Due.*
3. Use this [example response memo](assignments/response-memo-example.pdf) when writing your own response memo to peer comments.

**October 18**: Multiple Regression: Part 1

**October 21**: Multiple Regression: Part 2
1. *Final Submission of Writing Assignment 1 Due*
2. Review your notes on my lecture on econometric notation. Make sure you can explain the similarities and differences between FPP’s simple notation and the more complicated econometric notation. What are the two advantages of econometric notation?
3. Review your [notes on my lecture on regression for prediction](files/regression-prediction-slides.pdf).
4. Read [these notes](notes-multiple-regression-r.pdf) for more detail on prediction and BIC.


**October 23**: Catch-up Day and Review for Exam 2
1. [Exam 2 Study Guide](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1aRe1GgbJhoUTltteX-WPEJb-ImDVXq4FHz4QMuhThBY/edit#heading=h.pu6lyh4jr74b)

**October 25**: Exam 2


**October 28**: Probability: Part 1
1. We’ll look at [the Federalist papers](http://www.foundingfathers.info/federalistpapers/fedindex.htm) in class.
2. Read ch. 13 of FPP. Complete assigned exercises.
3. Start [Computing Assignment 5](assignments/r-assign-05.pdf).


**October 30**: Probability: Part 2
1. Read ch. 14 of FPP. Complete assigned exercises.

**November 1**: Law of Averages
1. Read ch. 16 of FPP. Complete assigned exercises.
2. Begin [Writing Assignment 2](assignments/writing-assignment-2.pdf)

**November 4**: Expected Value and Standard Error
1. Read ch. 17 of FPP. Complete assigned exercises.

**November 6**: Normal Approximation of a Probability Histogram
1. Read ch. 18 of FPP. Complete assigned exercises.
2. *Submit [Computing Assignment 5](assignments/r-assign-05.pdf).*
3. In class, use these slides as needed [Google Slides](https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/1SOUFFnB3VvILGscV5qOGxJnKJjHIHdbhFzxyB7SEJ8Y/edit#slide=id.g2ac70fc58f_0_9).

**November 8**: No Class- Another Conference

**November 11**: The Accuracy of Percentages
1. Read ch. 21 of FPP. Complete assigned exercises.

**November 13**: The Accuracy of Averages
1. *Initial submission of Writing Assignment 2 due*
2. Read ch. 23 of FPP. Complete assigned exercises.

**November 15**: Hypothesis Testing: Part 1
1. Read ch. 26 of FPP. Complete assigned exercises.

**November 18**: Hypothesis Testing: Part 2

### Question, Model and Data

**November 20**: Lecture on Effective Presentation
1. *Peer Review of Writing Assignment 2 Due*

**November 22**: Guest Lecture

**November 25**: No Class- Prepare Presentation
1. Here's some [guidance on slide design](https://www.speechworks.net/what-would-the-gettysburg-address-look-like-in-powerpoint/).

**December 2**: In-class Presentations
1. *Final Submission of [Writing Assignment 2](assignments/writing-assignment-2.pdf) Due*

**December 4**: In-class Presentations
